---
title: "TIL - Linux commands."
categories: 
    - private
tags: 
    - linux
---

**2019/11/05**
  
#Linuxcommands ⭐️

## Terms

* Kernel: **Core** of any OS! Acts as mediater btw Apps and H/W(CPU, Memory, Device)  
* Shell: Command Line Interpreter  
* BASH: The default shell for most Linux systems
* Daemons: Service(program) that provides several functions that may not be available on the base OS.
    - main task: listen to service request, then acts the request.
    - runs in the background, free of user control  
    - after the request is serviced, the Daemon disconnects and waits for further requests.  
    - **has no controlling terminal. Process를 보면 TTY에 ?가 나옴** = 유저가 아니라 OS가 시작했다는 뜻  
    - 대부분 'd'로 끝남  
    - Process vs. Daemon을 잘 알아둘 것
        - OS가 시작할때 자동으로 시작하고...  
        - 서비스이고  
        - 컨트롤 할 수 있는 터미널이 없고, 역할은, 등등...  
* LILO: Linux Loader  
    - Boot loader. Loads the Linux OS into main memory so that it can begin its operations  
    - /etc/lilo.conf  

## Frequent Questions
* What is the advantages of Linux being open-source?  
-> Serveral Distributions are available. (e.g. Fedora, Ubuntu, Debian)
-> Security experts can help the security
-> OS is free, but enterprise support may not be free  
  
* Basic components of Linux OS?
**-> Kernel, Shells & GUI (System Libraries) & System Utilities**
-> Kernel interacts directly with the underlying hardware, and provides required abstraction to hide low level h/w detials to the system or app programs  
  
* How to check Memory stats and CPU stats as a Linux admin?  
->**free & vmstat** commands to see the phy. and vir. memory statistics respectively  
```
free -m  
free -g  
vmstat -a
vmstat 2 6 (happens every 2 seconds, for 6 intervals)
vmstat -t 1 5 (adds time)
```
-> **sar** CPU utilization & other stats  
System Activity Report
```
sar -u 
```

* How to shrink size of **LVM partition**? (Logical Volumn)  
-> perform these actions in order:
```
df -hT
umoung /lvm
e2fsck -f /dev/zoom/linux
resize2fs /dev/zoom/linux 3G
lvreduce -L 3GB /dev/zoom/linux
mount /dev/zoom/linux /lvm
df -hT
```

* Explain the functionality of root user
-> superuser or system administrator
-> default account every time Linux is installed
-> Access, execute

* CLI? GUI?
-> Command Line Interface
advantage: multiple steps can be executed by a single command
-> Graphic User Interface

* How can you find out how much memory Linux is using?
```
free -g
```
OR
```
cat /proc/meminfo
```
  
  
* What is **Swap space**?
-> temporary space to hold active programs
-> 메모리가 부족하면 main memory에서 이 swap space를 비움

* What is the typical size of a Swap partition under Linux system?
-> 2 x the amount of physical memory

* How to access partitions under Linux
```
fdisk -l
```

* How are hard drives and floppy drives referred in Linux filesystem?
-> floppy drives **/dev/fd0** and **/dev/fd1**
-> IDE/EIDE hard drives **/dev/hda, /dev/hdb, /dev/hdc**
  
* How are names assigned to the different serial ports?
**/dev/ttyS0 /dev/ttyS7** 
  
* How are parallel ports (printers) referenced in Linux?
ls -l /dev/lp*
  
* What are the kind of permissions available in Linux?  
read / write / execute
  

* How do you change permissions under Linux?  
chmod  Change the permissions of files and directories
chown  Change the owner of files and directories
chgrp  change the group ownership  
```chmod g+wx, o-wx, u=rwx filename```
```chown username filename```
u / g / o / a = usesrs / groups / others / all  
  
  
* What are Symbolic links?  
= soft links. short cuts. points to another file, does not contain data.
```ln -s file```
contains different inode numbers  
are no updated  


* What are Hard links?
= point directly to the physical file on disk, and no to the path name
will not break even if you rename or move the original file
  
  
* maximum filename length?
255 characters 
  

* What is virtual desktop?
= stored in a remote server
  

* Environmental variables?  
global settings, or path where s/w is installed
used to pass information in to processes through shell

* redirection: pass the output of one operation as input to another operation in the same command 
```cat file1 file2 > file3.txt```
```cat >>file1.txt```
\>> means not overwriting
  

* GREP?  
searching for a particular string/text in a text file.
pattern based searching
= ctrl + F in Windows.

```
grep sd testing
grep -n sd testing
grep -c sd testing
```
  
  
* terminate a process ongoing?  
pid (every process in UNIX has this)  
**kill pid**

  
* prompt $ : user
* prompt # : root superuser
  

* Inode (IMPORTANT!)  
contents of the file will be stored in Data blocks
information of the file will be stored in **Inode**
(file-size, ower ID, mode, permission, hards links...etc.)
  

* shadow passwords  
stored in **/etc/passwd** 


## Commands

--- | ---
**cat /etc/shells**  | 사용할 수 있는 shell 나열
**echo $SHELL** | 현재 셸 보여줌 
**ps -ef** | Run 중인 프로세스를 보여줌
**free** | physical memory stat
**vmstat** | virtual memory stat
**sar** | CPU Utilization
**** |  
**cat /proc/meminfo** | 사용중인 메모리
**free -g** | 사용중인 메모리
**** |  
**df -hT** | logical volumn 보기
**umount /lvm** | unmount logical volumn
**e2fsck -f /dev/zoom/linux** | check problems in the file system
**resize2fs /dev/zoom/linux 3G** | resize file system
**lvreduce -L 3GB /dev/zoom/linux** |
**fdisk -l** | 리눅스 아래 파티션 접근
**chmod** | Change the permissions of files and directories
**chown** | Change the owner of files and directories
**chgrp** | change the group ownership  
**ln -s file** | create shortcut(=symbolic links)
**ls -a** | view all the files (+hidden files ".~")
**** |
**mkdir** | create a folder
**vi** | create a file
**vim** | create a file
**gedit** | create a file
**nano** | create a file
**** |
**cat** | view a file
**vi** | view a file
**gedit** | view a file
**kate/kwrite** | view a file
**pico** | view a file
**nano** | view a file
**** |
**env** | see system env. variables e.g. PATH, HOME
**w** | see users currently logged in to this OS (w log)
**grep** |
**** |
**grep sd testing** | find "sd" in file testing (options: -n, -c)
**** |
**kill 0** | kill all ongoing process
**kill pid** | kill a certain process with pid
**ctrl+z** | kill ongoring process
**** |
**#** | comments
**;** | commend chaining. mkdir dir1 ; cd dir; ...
**** |
**ls -a -l *.txt** | display all the '.txt' files along with its permissions
**ps -aux** | find status of a process (s)
**du -sh /boot** | calculate size of a folder.(du: directory usage)
**free -m** | check memory status of the system (-g GB)
**** |
**$su root** | switch user account to root user
**#apt-get update** |
**sudo apt-get update** | execute a command as root user
**** |
**nohup** | start when server starts, terminated when you log out.
**syslogd** | daemon tracking events on system
**nice [OPTION] [COMMAND [ARG]...]** | set a process-intensive job to execute in less CPU time (option: -20~19)
**** |
**ps -fl cat** | check the priority (-`0, --10)
**renice -n -19 -p** | use for program already in use
**** |
**** |
**** | 







